To create our authorization server,
we create a new Spring Boot 2 project with web and
Spring Security starter dependencies.
We can use the Spring Initializer to set this up for us.
If we look at the feature matrix,
Spring's authorization server is not yet a part of Spring Security 5.
It's a part of the older Spring Security OAuth project.
Also, Spring Boot 2 only supports Spring Security 5,
which will unify all the other OAuth projects eventually.
Hence, authorization server should eventually be part of Spring Security 5.
But until then,
we can use the following dependency to bridge the old
Spring Security OAuth with Spring Boot 2.
We need to provide a version as it's an external dependency.
The version will have to match the Spring Boot 2 version.
Next,
we'll create a configuration class for the authorization server that
will extend the AuthorizationServerConfigurerAdapter.
Then add the configuration annotation so that it's added to the Spring context.
Additionally, we also add the EnableAuthorizationServer annotation.
We override the configure method that accepts the
AuthorizationServerSecurityConfigurer builder.
Two things we need to do here.
First, we set the permission for our tokenKeyAccess endpoint to permitAll,
meaning any client can request that access token.
In your implementation,
you could restrict some clients from accessing the token
endpoint based on roles or authorities.
Perhaps the client first needs to be approved as not every grant type
uses the token endpoint like the implicit grant type.
Next, for the token check access, you can set it to isAuthenticated,
meaning the client will have to be authenticated before it can use
the token endpoint to verify a token they possess.
If you're going to pass your token around to other services,
then all the services would have to be known to the authorization server.
We now need to register our web application as a
client of the authorization server.
We can override the configure method that accepts the
ClientDetailsServiceConfigurer builder.
For demo purposes, we'll set up an in- memory version.
Here we can put all the details about our client web app,
the client ID, supported grant types,
in our case it's the authorization_code grant and the client-secret.
Now it's important to keep the client secret safe.
If that gets leaked, then anyone can masquerade as the client.
Now for demo purposes, I have hardcoded it here.
But in a production system, you would want to store it in a secure secret store.
In my previous course on Spring Security,
I talk about options of doing this in the Secure
Secrets with Spring Cloud Vault module.
Also,
you would want your secret to be long and difficult to crack via brute force.
And by default, Spring expects it to be hashed.
So we can wire in a password encoder and do that.
Next, we specify the supported scopes for this client and the redirect URIs.
This is for validation purposes.
If you recall,
when the client requests an access code via the
redirect from the user's browser, they provide a redirect URI in the request.
The resource server will only redirect the URI that
is preregistered for these claims.
This is for the consent pop-up.
By default, it's already actually false,
meaning that the user will be prompted to approve the
scopes being requested by the client.
By setting it to true,
the authorization server would just approve by default any scope
defined in the supported scopes for this client.
Now you can also store your client metadata in the database
as Spring has a JDBC builder for that.
Or you could create your own implementation by creating a class that
implements the ClientDetailsService and implementing a loadClientById
method that returns the ClientDetails object.
Our resource server now needs a way to authenticate the resource owner, the user.